everyone welcome back to another
hardware news recap for the week in this
one we're talking about nvidia AMD and
intel potentially backing out of
Computex along with several of the case
makers we've spoken with AMD doubling
down and simultaneously doubling back on
its open-source promises for GPU open
samsung pushing a six and a half
gigabyte per second sequential read SSD
to market the u.s. wanting to bring chip
makers stateside for additional
production unpassable thunder spy attack
factors and plenty more including Unreal
Engine 5 before that this video is
brought to you by Thermal Grizzlies
conduct a not liquid metal conductor
nada is what we've used in all of our
liquid metal and delayed Thermal tests
capable of dropping TV thermals
significantly and replacing the stock
thermal interface over cpu thermals
don't just allow better over clocks but
also lower noise levels because the
transfer efficiency has increased the
mix of gallium and indium makes for a
thermal conductivity of 73 watts per
meter Kelvin outclassing traditional
pastes significantly learn more at the
link in the description below
so I want to start off with the Jian
news item first this is our new mouse
mat you all have been asking us to make
a mouse mat for a long time now we
didn't want to just print a logo on it
we wanted to do a whole custom design
for it and also hold custom mouse mat so
we even did blue rubber for the backside
which was exceptionally hard to do you
have no idea how hard it was just to
make the rubber blue it's apparently
really uncommon which increased our
minimum order quantity by a lot it also
increased our cost but we didn't
increase that most RP with it because I
just really want a blue Robert
personally for the back of the mat so
the new gamers Nexus wireframe Mouse mat
is about 36 inches by 12 inches we'll
put the centimeters up on the screen if
you want that instead and it's already
on store dock gamers XS net if you want
to pick it up we had to individually
source the supply of all the materials
and really get it right this took 10
months of back-and-forth sampling you'd
think a mousepad would be easy and it
would be if you just kind of printed a
logo on it and called it a day but we
did a lot of back-and-forth sampling
because we wanted to specifically work
with a factory and a printer that had a
really high print quality for fine
details because if you look closely at
the mouse mat it's got all these
wireframe components that Andrew made
and blender actually for this project so
they're 3d models that we were able to
rotate and put on the mat for things
like CPU coolers at our cooler there
with all the fin stack and copper heat
pipe components
get just like in a real one there's a
liquid cooler that has a cold plate
visible in it we have orange accents for
the tubes and the tank on the radiator
SSD with small components motherboard
with small components there's a video
card with a complete vrm on it you
probably wouldn't be able to actually
boot that thing but there's a VR M on it
memory modules and the G on wireframe
logo so there's a lot of really small
detail in there and we just announced
this on in a separate video it's on the
store now on store that game is XS net
and it is shipping now so this is
already in stock and going out as soon
as the orders come in so yeah biggest
considerations for us we're fine detail
printing quality which meant choosing
between a few different factories doing
a lot of sample runs and rejecting all
the bad ones till we got to where we are
today
so with high quality print we did the
blue stitching on the border to reduce
frein and increase the longevity of the
mat and then the blue rubber on the back
was just because I really wanted to do
something unique and it's just kind of a
flare to add to it and you're not paying
any extra for it it was because I wanted
to do it so this whole thing was a big
undertaking and the services microfiber
surface so it's the same surface as our
other mouse pads if you've used those
they glide really well but the biggest
thing that I worked on logistically was
getting rid of single-use plastics and
it was a lot harder than I thought so we
work with a lot of computer hardware
obviously every single day and one of
the things I just personally bothers me
is opening up a cooler and finding
twelve plastic bags in it to contain a
few sets of screws and there's a lot of
good reasons that manufacturers used so
much single-use plastic it's because
they're worried about things scratching
each other and now you have an RMA over
scratched paint and now you're throwing
away the entire product rather than just
a plastic bag so it's a difficult
balance to strike the reason that mouse
pads use single-use plastics when
shipping typically is to protect the
because they often flat pack them so you
end up with rubber to microfiber cloth
and you can have some of the rubber rub
off on the cloth and the best solution
to that typically is single-use plastic
but I really wanted to get rid of it so
we worked with the factory to get a
solution in place where there's no
plastic involved and the way it ships to
you is basically the way it ships to us
except it's palletized for us
and packed you know efficiently so we
can fit a lot of them on a pallet but we
did get rid of plastic so I'm really
actually proud of that and that was it
cost a little bit more to you wouldn't
think it would because you're removing a
component from the chain but that
component plastic is so common that in
some instances you can end up paying
more because now you're adding
potentially like a process to roll the
mats for example to protect them a
certain way without using materials and
that cost manpower which in a lot of
places will cost more than the plastic
wealth because that's the way the world
works so yeah that's on the store it's
one of the best ways to support us is by
buying our products on the store because
it helps us reduce our reliance on
advertisers and it allows me to continue
to be extremely picky about ads and not
sell ads for things like for example the
a500 that didn't perform well because
we're supported by the community with
our store purchases so thanks for
letting me talk about that let's move on
to the news for the week the first one
Computex is in a rough shape for a
complete computer hardware industry
there's already a been a dialing back of
Computex back when of was postponed from
May June as timeline to the September
timeline they already announced that
they were decreasing the exhibit floor
space it's typically the entirety of
nonagon Convention Center and also
Taiwan World Trade Center and then also
some of Taipei 101 that's been
constricted significantly with the move
to September and also the computer
hardware manufacturers are falling off
one by one so to our knowledge
coolermaster is not presently planning
to go and to our knowledge several of
the video card board partners are not
planning to go not going to name them
yet not sure if we really can but
suffice to say we've had a lot of
conversations with people when we were
trying to figure out if we're flying to
Computex or not this year it looks like
the answer probably no Intel Nvidia AMD
are now in the list of rumored companies
dropping out of Computex the
cancellations are due to of course none
other than our recurring enemy human
malware and it looks like it's getting
pared down pretty hard for now according
to digit times the sources show that it
looks like gigabyte and a messiah are
likely to bail on the show we can
actually confirm this we've heard that
as well Andy has been promising Xen 3
and our DNA 2 for 2020 for some time now
and it's been expected that at least
four CPUs AMD would
the wraps off at Computex this year but
it's uncertain at this point whether
that's going to happen if Andy and other
chip makers are indeed going to be
absent from this year's show we'd expect
them to pivot to an online event such as
a live stream like Nvidia just did for
GTC 20/20 digitized report notes that
other vendors and OEMs are already
planning such online events to show off
their products that were slated for
Computex 2020 and speaking from our own
experience that's probably going to
include Coolermaster and it might
include Leeanne Lee and a couple of
other case makers so these are companies
that are based in Taiwan so if they're
not going to Computex five minutes down
the road that's not a good sign for
Computex and that's a big show for the
industry it's an important one even if
you don't watch the coverage that's
where everything starts to kind of get
rolling for the next year
Andy goes back on open-source promises
and the story after this will be about
Andy doubling down on open-source
promises so we've got two conflicting
narratives for this one Andy Scott her
command posted on reddit recently about
epics Unreal Engine advancements which
will be in the same news show later on
and in so doing her Coleman noted the
following quote what is exciting about
the new consoles launching is that for
those game developers who build games
across PC and consoles it will push them
to incorporate leading next-gen
techniques to all audiences the other
point that we here at AMD have been
planning for is the timing with the
console launches to ensure that no
hardware vendor specific proprietary
ray-tracing technique or other GPU
features slows down and bifurcates the
industry to adopting next-gen features
with this console momentum and
Microsoft's DXR for PCs I'm hopeful
Scott herkiman said that we can push
towards an open ecosystem for all gaming
and gamers shortly after recommitting to
openness for its GPU and graphic
solutions and the shattered another one
of its glass walls
after years of casting stones through it
at competitors including Nvidia and
Intel and it did so because there's been
a change to GPU open and the ray-tracing
solution that's hosted on it there may
be a legitimate reason for this
licensing change and it could be a
reason that's related to the console
makers but once you're tossing stones at
competitors it sort of stops mattering
just how legitimate the reasons are
it's hard to forget the interminable
nagging of nvidia by AMD for years for
Nvidia's close source graphic solutions
and Anthes Radeon Rays solution hosted
on Andy's GPU open website has now gone
to close source after specifically
calling for non proprietary graphic
standards within days of that happening
and also the GPU open site is entirely
dedicated to that principle so changes
that were made to Radeon raised version
4.0 include dropping OpenCL dropping
open source adding DirectX 12 adding
Vulcan adding optimization for bounding
volume hierarchies or B VHS and a couple
of other changes the licensing moves
from the MIT open source license to just
a simple closed source license and it
looks like GPU open is remaining as the
host for Radeon Ray's 4.0 despite this
change we should note a few key things
here first off we don't begrudge any
company for having closed source code
especially if it's a GPU maker they're
typically extremely competitive it makes
sense that they wouldn't want to
optimize for each other's code and if
Andy wants to go down that path that's
certainly fine we won't hold it against
them it's also potentially millions of
dollars investment if not more it could
be hundreds of millions in some cases
and not every single software package
needs to be given away for free again
especially in a competitive market so if
AMD wants to go close source cool but
the problem is that AMD has built its
brand now on top of smearing its
competitors for doing the things that
it's starting to do you see this with
the chipset situation and the socket
situation
now Andy technically is sticking to
socket support through 2020 even though
it later rephrase that to till 2020 it's
sticking to it but Intel has had socket
support since 2015 for LGA 1151 the
difference is that AMD implicitly made
it seem like the other chipsets would
continue to be supported with all
versions of Xen anyway that's old news
you all heard about it by now so now
we're seeing so many things on the GPU
side and if Andy wants to do these
things that's completely fine but it
needs to watch out for its marketing so
that this doesn't happen it comes back
and bites it for being a hypocrite
rather than just being like
every company in which case it's like
well they're all doing it so whatever
quick update after filming that story
and several hours after we actually
about a day after we asked for comment
from AMD we did eventually receive a
comment to gamers Nexus from AMD and it
says quote thank you to the community
for the feedback on Radeon raised four
point now we have reviewed this
internally and we'll be making the
following changes and it will make
Radeon raise four point open source
however specific AMD IP will be placed
into libraries and have source code
available for the community via SLA at
this point as for what those specific
IPS are they're almost certainly related
to and these partners so potentially
Xbox and the PlayStation 5 but it sounds
like it's it sounds like AMD realized
the irony of exactly what we were saying
in the first half of this and has gone
back on it we downloaded the Radeon race
package it does look like it has most of
the normal open source language in it so
they have reverted to that and one of
the developers from AMD on the Radeon
Rays github page going by the name of
Dmitry posted this comment as well how
you guys thanks for still being with us
and for the feedback you've provided so
far it has been decided yesterday to
open-source most of Radeon raise for and
put AMD specific IP and close to our
modules source will be available upon
request under SLA so glad to see that
these are at least starting to identify
the irony in some of its marketing and
its actions because this is a good
change at least overall all of that
stated Andy does get credit for
breathing new life into the rest of its
open source GPU open suite both with a
revamped website and a collection of new
technologies optimized for our DNA base
two GPUs GPU oven was launched in 2016
as an open source alternative ten videos
game works but Andy is overhauling it
for developers with four new fidelity FX
effects as AM denotes the fidelity FX
family was announced last year with its
open source effect contrast adaptive
sharpening or cas that made its way to
games like rage 2 and shadow of the Tomb
Raider now fidelity FX has been expanded
to include stochastic screen space
reflections or SSS are combined adaptive
compute ambient occlusion or what we're
calling cacao luminance press
preserving mapper or LPM and single
passed down sampler or
SPD stochastic screen spaced reflections
is Andy's take on screen spaced
reflections or SSR which is an old
approach to cost-saving graphics that
reduce GPU load by only calculating
reflections based on the view frustum
specifically the fidelity FX
implementation will look to shore up
shortcomings with traditional screen
space reflections of which there are
many with a different algorithm that can
add varying degrees of roughness to
support glossy or less glossy surfaces
sssr also comes with an our DNA
optimized denoiser combining results
from several frames to construct a noise
free image next is fidelity FX kakao or
combined adaptive compute ambient
occlusion this is an our DNA optimized
version of ambient occlusion kakao based
on intel's adaptive screen space ambient
occlusion has been optimized to support
a range of hardware and sampling quality
objects and we really hope that Kakao
becomes the official name that all the
other media use when talking about this
fidelity FX and luminance preserving
mapper or LPM was the other one
announced this is an open source library
for bringing over HDR and wide gamut
tone and mapping into games there's also
support for packed FP 16 when using
Vulcan lastly there's fidelity FX single
pass down sampler or SPD this can be
used for down sampling the resolution of
assets using two myth levels SPD is
capable of a single pass for all myth
levels rather than a pass for every myth
level I mean the GPU doesn't have to be
synchronized after each step
this makes SPD suitable for asynchronous
compute and should speed up performance
that's as easy as it needs to be handy
just do this just announce the good
things and stop throwing rocks at people
because this is all good news on its own
you don't need to try and tear people
down in the process of this the US wants
to bring chip makers stateside for
production Intel already has several
fabs in the US but it looks like the
current administration is in talks with
Intel and tsmc about bolstering the chip
manufacturing capabilities of us-based
factories the talks between the US
government and chip makers come as
obviously the global geopolitics heat up
with China especially between the US and
China and that's thanks to the hot seat
issues such as trade
and human malware as it is now the US
government has become increasingly
concerned about reliance on chip
manufacturing and supply chains in China
to that end representatives with Intel
and tsmc have been in contact with the
Department of Defense about increasing
domestic chip production according to
Reuters quote Intel as well positions to
work with the US government to operate a
US owned commercial foundry and supply a
broad range of secure micro electronics
said Intel an unrelated news intel has
posted 28 security advisories since
January of 2020 but anyway not what just
seemed appropriate to say but we'll move
on tsmc has continued to straddle the
fence on this proposal by the government
and it notes that it is quote actively
evaluating all suitable locations
including the US as an option for its
new fabs and it says there is no
concrete plan yet furthermore according
to a separate report from digitizes the
profits of the industry tsmc continues
to weigh in on options for locations
outside of taiwan and it does say that
the u.s. is one such possible location
TSMC also stated that if it were to move
any manufacturing capacity to the US at
all it would be spurred by consumer
demand however new reports have
seemingly contradicted what digit x was
saying according to The Wall Street
Journal TSMC has imminent plans to build
a five nanometer foundry in Arizona with
construction expected to begin in 2021
TSMC expects production to begin in 2024
the new fab would get a twelve billion
dollar investment spread over nine years
and it would create an estimated 1600
jobs the fab will eventually be capable
of producing 20,000 wafers per month
this will mark TS MCS second
manufacturing site in the US with the
other being located in Washington tsmc
also holds design centers in Austin
Texas and San Jose California the US
government is also apparently looking
into ways to help Samsung expanding its
facilities in the u.s. Samsung currently
has a plant in Austin Texas speaking of
security vulnerabilities and how secure
the micro electronics Intel makes can be
news has surfaced of a new hardware
based exploit affecting Thunderbolt
ports aptly named thunder spy the news
comes to light thanks to the work of
researcher Bjorn rice and Berg and the
exploit affects any PC with a
Thunderbolt port and can apparently
bypass passwords and encryption to a
captured data while the attack is
serious it should be noted that this
attack requires the attacker to have
physical access to the hardware which
should theoretically limit the attack
surface Thunder Spy is a collection of
attacks that essentially break any
security measures put in place by
Thunderbolt 1 2 and 3 and allow DMA
attacks or direct memory access quote
these vulnerabilities lead to 9
practical exploitation scenarios in an
evil made threat level model and vary in
security levels we demonstrate the
ability to create arbitrary Thunderbolt
device identities clone user authorized
Thunderbolt devices and finally obtain
PCIe connectivity to perform DMA attacks
in addition we show unauthenticated
overwriting of security level
configurations including the ability to
disable Thunderbolt security entirely
and restoring Thunderbolt connectivity
if the system is restricted to
exclusively passing through USB and/or
DisplayPort we conclude with
demonstrating the ability to permanently
disable Thunderbolt security and block
all future firmware updates says Verizon
Burke in his report as for the affected
devices Thunder Spy affects all pcs that
were made between 2011 and 2012 via
software or via firmware mitigations
according to the researcher it will
require a silicon redesign Intel notes
via a blog post that kernel direct
memory access or DMA again has been in
place since 2019 to mitigate thunderbolt
based attacks however the research paper
warns that kernel direct memory access
protection isn't a silver bullet for
Thunder spot and that thunder spy stands
to threaten future connection standards
such as USB 4 and Thunderbolt 4 next up
in the news epic made major waves this
week with its announcement of Unreal
Engine 5 including the unveiling of
several new graphics approaches to
increasing the our favorite buzz word
fidelity of game graphics epic showcased
a tech demo running on
station five hardware probably a dev kit
and the reveal and subsequent headlines
were reflect with sensationalism on how
our pcs are now being put to shame by
consoles and included the liberal use of
the phrase next-gen which we suppose is
right about on time all of that said it
sort of deserves it the Unreal Engine
five demo was impressive the tech demo
titled lumen in the land of nanite
highlights a few things that Unreal
Engine 5 will bring with it the demo
gets its namesake from the core
technology in Yui 5 nanite virtualized
geometry the idea behind nanite says
that developers can port film quality
assets into Yui 5 with automatic
scalability in terms of LOD depending on
the scene quote nanite virtualized micro
polygon geometry freeze artists to
create as much geometric detail as the
eye can see
nanite virtualized geometry means that
film quality source art comprising
hundreds of millions or billions of
polygons can be imported directly into
unreal engine anything from ZBrush
sculpts to photogrammetry scans to CAD
data it just works we thought we we've
heard that line somewhere before but
Jensen is that is that you is Jensen
haunting the studio again either way
there's also lumens system which epic
says is quote a fully dynamic global
illumination solution that immediately
reacts to scene and light changes epic
frames this as a way around these static
lighting limitations found in current
game engines epic claims that developers
will no longer need to develop light
maps by hand or wait for quote light map
bakes to finish and to author light map
UVs
additionally the idea of streaming
assets from storage to system memory is
apparently being realized thanks to SSDs
finally making their way into consoles
it's not a new idea
mind you it's just one that's been
shelved thanks to spinning storage with
SSDs increased memory and improve the
i/o of new consoles games should be able
to theoretically load in assets as the
scene is rendered this obviously has big
implications for loading screens and for
poppin with models on the business side
I think it's transitioning ue5 to a new
model where royalties are waived until a
game reaches 1 million dollars in gross
revenue Epic Games CEO Tim Sweeney also
noted in the company's Unreal Engine 5
press briefing that he believes there's
going to be a knock-on impact from the
Sony Playstation 5
SST implementation specifically that
could impact pcs as well we've already
known that the playstation 5 and Xbox
are both moving to solid state storage
this has been known for a long time now
but Sweeny seems to indicate it's more
of an architectural advancement in the
playstation 5s storage solution than
just the SSD alone
Sweeny seems to imply that the new SSDs
would be sufficiently fast to render
game worlds tens of gigabytes in size
direct quote on-the-fly
highlighting that it specifically the
playstation 5s storage architecture that
outpaces what pcs are currently capable
of Sweeny specifically stated that it's
quote ahead of anything you can buy on
PC for any amount of money right now and
if there's one man who knows about being
able to buy things with large amounts of
money that's probably the guy it's going
to help drive future pcs sweeney said
further elaborating that SSDs need to
catch up to the PS 5 storage solution on
PC
note that Sweeney's despite being a CEO
of a massive company at this point is
extremely technically competent he's not
like a lot of the tech CEOs out there
and likely knows what he's talking about
here so this isn't just CEO CEO speak of
trying to get the partners to like them
more it's probably not just a fluff
piece and historically Sweeney has been
a PC advocate first in the past
Samsung six and a half gigabyte per
second read PCIe gen 4 SSDs announced
Samsung just announced its new PCIe gen
for SSD the PM 9 a3 the highlight of
which is among chart-topping sequential
read performance as 6500 megabytes per
second some of the other stats aren't as
impressive particularly the random write
speed at 180 thousand jobs this drive
seems to be optimized specifically for
high sequential reads which would make
it useful in data center deployments or
other targeted use cases where that's
the primary need the SSD also writes at
3,500 megabytes per second sequentially
putting it I'm on top performers but
barring it from being the top performer
or among the very top few random read I
ops is reported as 900,000 for this one
according to Samsung's marketing
materials Samsung intends to make a full
range of the pm9 a3
starting at 960 gigabytes and reaching
almost 8 terabytes at 7.6 8 terabytes
the largest model after a revision name
that's it for this one thanks for
watching as always go to store documents
access net and grab one of our numerous
mats they are up there and shipping now
as the orders come in
it's about as stated 36 by 12 or so and
freedom units in inches and we've got
them available so thanks for your
support we all see you all next time
[Music]